==
== PixScribe Photo Annotation Tools
==

Changes in release 0.2 (in progress)

* Adding convert action to pix.pl to curate all of the odd video
  formats into a common mp4 base.  Merged the cvtvid.pl script with
  code for handling cannon elph movs with ffmpeg.

* First update in about nine years.  Picture naming convention has
  held up very well over the past 15 years and the pixtag description
  files have also been fine.  Now curating large numbers of scanned
  pictures and videos from dozens of sources and am running into the
  limits of my tool set.

* Rewrote all of the functionality of the pix.exe C program as a new
  pix.pl perl script.  Command names have changed (update -> tagmake,
  cat -> tagcat, get -> taginfo), but perl is more responsive and
  easier integrate with other tools.

* Added renum command to renumber blocks of files with management of
  any existing pixtag annotations.

* Added mv command to move a single files with management of any
  existing pixtag annotations.

* Added metadata curation using the exiftool library and conversion of
  videos to a common known-good form (H264/AAC) with ffmpeg.

Changes in release 0.1 (2008-03-14)

* Added update command for managing changing directories of files.

* 2007-01-22 - First version of a maintenance tool library based on
  Expat parser.  Was previously using some perl scripts for creating
  an empty description file for all pictures in a directory.  This was
  fine for documenting accumulated digital pictures, but when scanning
  accumulated film, pictures were being added to completed directories
  and it was getting difficult to keep track.

* 2006-12-16 - The pixtag domain has been snatched up by someone else.
  Annoyed at himself, Dave registers the pixscribe.com domain instead.

* 2006-12-01 - After acquiring forty years and 25 CDs of unlabeled
  picture scans from his father, Dave develops a renewed interest in
  labeling his own pictures and scanning his old ones.

* 2006-09-04 - Dave lets the pixtag.com and picstag.com domains expire
  since he has done nothing with them and is tired of paying the $30.

* 2003-11-03 - Progress is slow but continuing.  I have run the pixtag
  description format and file naming convention through real-world
  tests while scanning 35mm photos and organizing new digital photos.
  It has held up quite well, and I have spread the specs around to a
  few other folks who seem to have similar needs.

  I have been writing little tools as I need them.  The first one read
  the pixtag data and generated an HTML page with the descriptions and
  links to the photos.  I used that for putting a web page for a
  summer work picnic.

  The second tool generated an empty set of XML tags for a given set
  of file names, which made it easier for me to document a bunch of
  photos in one big go.

  I have been using EMACS to author the descriptions, but have been
  working on a simple Visual Basic tool to make it easier for other
  folks to write notes.  This is coming along, but not yet ready.

  I use jhead to batch rename digicam files from the EXIF timestamp.
  This can also adjust the timestamp, which is very handy when pulling
  together pictures from several non-synchronized cameras.

* 2003-09-04 - Realized that while PHIX amused me, a more descriptive
  name would probably be better. Registered the domains pixtag.com and
  picstag.com (the latter for misspellings based on word-of-mouth)

* 2003-09-03 - Based on some XML discusions with Joe Fritz, made a few
  changes to the master file format to make it well formed XML.  Also
  based on experience scanning many pictures from the same event,
  decided to add the <event> capability.

* 2003-08-30 - After a long time of contemplation and research on
  photo metadata, began work on a photo indexing tools, to be called
  PHIX for Photo Index (in the spirit of the STIX STEP Index tools).
  Wrote down my rant against the existing overengineered and
  incompatible solutions, developed the initial design points, speced
  out the file naming convention, speced out a simple form for the
  master file, and began writing a perl script to handle the major
  operations.

* 2003-08-06 - Upgrade from photoshop 3.0, which strips EXIF data, to
  photoshop 7.0, which displays EXIF as read only, and only allows
  notes as byzantine XMP structures in the JPEG comment block.

* 2003-01 - Upgraded to new machine running Windows XP, with the
  bundled picture viewer essentially spelling the doom of any other
  viewer.  The Windows viewer uses the NTFS properties to support
  notes.

* 2002-11-26 - Asked SuperJPG guy to put annotations in EXIF.  Was
  rebuffed because he wanted to keep things in his own (closed)
  annotation file so that he could support other formats.

* The origin -- Dave shoots many pictures with his digital camera.
  Wants the ability to jot a note on the photo, but annoyed at the
  inability of vendors to agree on a standard way to do this.  Also
  wary of proprietary solutions since the photos hopefully will be
  around for many years.



