Independent JPEG Group  http://www.ijg.org/



http://johnst.org/sw/exiftags/
exiftags
exifcom -- hampered by the fact that it cannot extend the tag length.








exiftags

       

    Description
                                                                                                                  
    The exiftags utility parses a specified JPEG file or, by default, its standard input, looking for a JPEG APP1 section containing Exif (Exchangeable Image File) image metadata.
    The properties contained in these data are then printed to the standard output. Digital cameras typically add Exif data to the image files they produce, containing information
    about the camera and digitized image.

    The program supports a variety of cameras, and includes additional support for a portion of the maker notes for Canon, Casio, Fuji, Minolta, Nikon, Olympus, and Sanyo
    cameras. Currently this program runs under Windows and Unix-like operating systems.

    An included companion utility, exifcom, displays and writes the UserComment Exif tag that some cameras include in the image metadata they create. This program is useful for
    recording caption or location information in the image file itself.

    I wrote this package to support the photoweb script, available from my software page.

    Distribution
    The current version of exiftags is 0.98. It carries a BSD license. The following distributions are available: 

         Source tarball: exiftags-0.98.tar.gz 
         i386 RPM: exiftags-0.98-1.i386.rpm 
         Source RPM: exiftags-0.98-1.src.rpm 
         Debian packages 
         Windows executables: exiftags.zip 

    If you've got a package you'd like me to reference here, just let me know. 

    Documentation
    Most of what you need to know is detailed in the man pages included with the distribution: exiftags and exifcom. You may also find the README or CHANGES documents
    useful.

    Support
    E-mail questions, comments, patches, etc. to Eric Johnston. This software comes with no warranty or guaranteed support.

    Other Software
    Following are software packages of which I am aware that use exiftags. If you'd like something added to this list, just let me know. 

         AutoScrapbook, a script for generating and maintaining an online photo gallery. 
         Galadmin, a Gallery Administrator. 

    Sample Output
    Following is a sample of the output from exiftags using the default options:

    Camera-Specific Properties:

    Equipment Make: Canon
    Camera Model: Canon PowerShot S200
    Maximum Lens Aperture: f/2.8
    Sensing Method: One-Chip Color Area
    Lens Size: 5.41 - 10.81 mm
    Firmware Version: Firmware Version 1.00

    Image-Specific Properties:

    Image Orientation: Top, Left-Hand
    Horizontal Resolution: 180 dpi
    Vertical Resolution: 180 dpi
    Image Created: 2002:08:26 12:53:39
    Exposure Time: 1/200 sec
    F-Number: f/2.8
    Lens Aperture: f/2.8
    Exposure Bias: 0 EV
    Flash: Flash, Auto
    Focal Length: 5.41 mm
    Color Space Information: sRGB
    Image Width: 1600
    Image Height: 1200
    Rendering: Normal
    Exposure Mode: Auto
    Scene Capture Type: Standard
    Exposure Mode: Easy Shooting
    Focus Type: Auto
    Metering Mode: Evaluative
    Sharpness: Normal
    Saturation: Normal
    Contrast: Normal
    Shooting Mode: Manual
    Image Size: Large
    Focus Mode: Single
    Drive Mode: Single
    Flash Mode: Auto
    Compression Setting: Superfine
    Macro Mode: Normal
    Sequence Number: 1
    White Balance: Auto
    Image Number: 100-0032

    Following is a sample of the output from exifcom using the verbose (-v) option:

    Supported Length: 256
    Type: ASCII
    Length: 34
    Comment: Trip to Hong Kong, September 2002.

